deployments/finality-gadget-integration-op-l2/optimism/README.md, before:

## Creating the OP chain testnet

This deployment is used to create the OP chain testnet on the local L1 chain or the Sepolia testnet.

TODO: update the make commands to the new structure.

Deploy the OP chain testnet on the local L1 chain:

```bash
make prepare-op-chain
make start-op-chain
```

Deploy the OP chain testnet on the Sepolia testnet:

```bash
make prepare-op-chain-sepolia
make start-op-chain-sepolia
```

### Detailed description for the deployment steps on the Sepolia testnet

1. Some dependencies need to be installed before starting the deployment, and `go`, `foundry`, and `just` are needed. 

    Run the `install-deps.sh` script to install theses dependencies.

    ```bash
    install-deps.sh <OP_MONOREPO_DIR>
    ```

2. Four addresses and their private keys are needed when setting up the OP chain. 

    Run the Optimism Monorepo's `wallet.sh` script to generate the addresses. 

    ```bash
    cd <OP_MONOREPO_DIR>
    ./packages/contracts-bedrock/scripts/getting-started/wallet.sh
    ```

    Also, please send Sepolia ETH to the Admin, Proposer, and Batcher addresses.

3. Copy the `env.example` file to `.env` and set the environment variables.

    ```bash
    cp env.example .env
    ```

    Also, copy the output from the previous step and paste it into the `.env` file. **Note**: Remove the `export` from the output.

4. Generate the deployment configuration. 

    Run the `generate-deploy-config.sh` script to generate it.

    ```bash
    generate-deploy-config.sh <OP_MONOREPO_DIR>
    ```

5. Deploy the L1 contracts for the functionality of the OP chain. 

    Run the `deploy-l1-contracts.sh` script to deploy them.

    ```bash
    deploy-l1-contracts.sh <OP_MONOREPO_DIR>
    ```

6. Generate the L2 configuration file. 

    Run the `generate-l2-config.sh` script to generate it.

    ```bash
    generate-l2-config.sh <OP_MONOREPO_DIR> <OP_DEPLOYMENT_DIR>
    ```

7. Launch the OP chain. 

    Run the `launch-l2.sh` script to start the OP chain.

    ```bash
    launch-l2.sh <OP_MONOREPO_DIR> <OP_DEPLOYMENT_DIR>
    ```

### Launch the local L1 chain

This is only used to test the deployment of the OP chain before deploying it on the Sepolia testnet.

```bash
make start-l1-chain
```

Commit message:

chore: add make target to start local l1 chain

deployments/finality-gadget-integration-op-l2/optimism/README.md, after:

## Creating the OP chain testnet

This deployment is used to create the OP chain testnet on the local L1 chain or the Sepolia testnet.

TODO: update the make commands to the new structure.

Deploy the OP chain testnet on the local L1 chain:

```bash
make start-op-devnet
```

Deploy the OP chain testnet on the Sepolia testnet:

```bash
make start-op-chain-sepolia
```

### Detailed description for the deployment steps on the Sepolia testnet

1. The dependencies(`go`, `foundry`, and `just`) would be checked and installed with the `install-deps.sh` script. This script can be used for the deployment on both the L1 chain and the Sepolia testnet.

    ```bash
    install-deps.sh <OP_MONOREPO_DIR>
    ```

2. Four addresses and their private keys are needed when setting up the OP chain. 

    Run the Optimism Monorepo's `wallet.sh` script to generate the addresses. 

    ```bash
    cd <OP_MONOREPO_DIR>
    ./packages/contracts-bedrock/scripts/getting-started/wallet.sh
    ```

    Also, please send Sepolia ETH to the Admin, Proposer, and Batcher addresses.

3. Copy the `env.example` file to `.env` and set the environment variables.

    ```bash
    cp env.example .env
    ```

    Also, copy the output from the previous step and paste it into the `.env` file. **Note**: Remove the `export` from the output.

4. Generate the deployment configuration. 

    Run the `generate-deploy-config.sh` script to generate it.

    ```bash
    generate-deploy-config.sh <OP_MONOREPO_DIR>
    ```

5. Deploy the L1 contracts for the functionality of the OP chain. 

    Run the `deploy-l1-contracts.sh` script to deploy them.

    ```bash
    deploy-l1-contracts.sh <OP_MONOREPO_DIR>
    ```

6. Generate the L2 configuration file. 

    Run the `generate-l2-config.sh` script to generate it.

    ```bash
    generate-l2-config.sh <OP_MONOREPO_DIR> <OP_DEPLOYMENT_DIR>
    ```

7. Launch the OP chain. 

    Run the `launch-l2.sh` script to start the OP chain.

    ```bash
    launch-l2.sh <OP_MONOREPO_DIR> <OP_DEPLOYMENT_DIR>
    ```

### Launch the local L1 chain

This is only used to test the deployment of the OP chain before deploying it on the Sepolia testnet.

```bash
make start-local-l1-chain
```
